
Marc Robert
own couple thousand acres out west
	manage for ag and water potential
	more focused on legal and effeciency of use rather than climate side of water rights
initially reticent about potential utility of CAi to their business
rolled eyes heavily at 'we want to pick your brains'
	'we are not in the brains picking business'
specific to US (and Aus)
	legal status to the rights that we own (i.e., high seniority)
	has the water been used historically (affects rights)
	are there ways to enhance water effeciency
		fallow or change crops
	is there a market for our excess water
		interested in offering our water to potential buyers
	is the community in which we operate supportive of those actions
'climate is impacting the macro, but we are not focused on climate variability' directly
most of their time is building relationships (esp. with farmers)
how to you assess improvements in effeciency of water use	
	assess historical practices
	typically dealing with annual crops
		easy to turn on and off
	act more as landlords than as farmers
		use leases to change 
	important: difficult to prove how water use effeciency has been increased
		prove to gov't agency
	usually sell water to municipalities, govts, and occassionally to environmental groups
	water is metered
		nonetheless, fed gov't will request whole plots are herbicided for validation
on-site storage
	there is additionally strong interest in impounding water on site in reservoirs or moreso recharging aquifers
not focused on the 6-month horizon
	we are selling 100-yr lease on water
	but there are other folks who may been
		esp. in Australia, with junior water players who speculate based on seasonal hydrologic cycle
		market is not as effecient in US to do so
	it might be useful on the water storage side 
	generally thinking on the 20-30yr time horizon
might be a great business in buying spill water from flood retention dams in cali
use hydrogeologists to map gw for long term assurity around rights
	quantify water volume
	what is recharge rate
	what depth could we take down water level without impacting 
	least favorite way of doing business, 
	could we refill, and use as an underground reservoir?
	and if refilled, would 
	basins and aquifers not spatially conforming
who would the seasonal projections be usefule for 
	municipalities, veles water index (partnered with nasdaq) [the NQH2O?]
discusses the NQH2O favoribly
	wishes that it were more liquid, but the illiquidity makes it not worth their while
	
wishes that there were more flexibility in the US market, as there is in the Aus market

surface water 80%, groundwater 20% (and surface water is the preferred)
trends that matter:
	heat (for ET)
	invest in companies that run hydroelectricity
	forest fire

fire prevention system that is mobile
	can be put around fire prone places with high value
		hotels, vineyards
a correlary:
	we sell water supply insurance, and everyone will need to build a water supply portfolio
	identifying locations that are likely in need supplemental water in the near future
there are not that many players in this field




start_time <- Sys.time()
a=mblm(y~x)
b=mblm(y~x)
c=mblm(y~x)
d=mblm(y~x)
mean(c(a$coef[2],b$coef[2],c$coef[2],d$coef[2]))
end_time <- Sys.time()
end_time - start_time

start_time <- Sys.time()
mblm(yy~xx)
end_time <- Sys.time()
end_time - start_time





Di Dato et al. 
A new approach for predicting baseflow conditions using spectral analysis
line 18-20: this statement is a bit too strong and broadly applied, as decreases in groundwater resources are primarily driven by overextraction (not climate change), gw resources are not expected to decline in many regions, and gw resource depletion does not necessarily lead to allocation conflict. I'd suggest you soften the language here.
line 26: remove 'could'
line 28: 'leads to groundwater response times...' --> 'leads to estimates / calculations of groundwater response times that are...'
line 47: cedes --> do you mean 'ceases' or 'recedes'?
line 67: one of the key reasons recession analysis has remained so popular (despite its documented shortcomings) is that if the simplifying assumptions are reasonable, then recession analysis can be uesed to solve for the hydraulic properties of the subsurface. 
	To my knowledge, spectral analysis cannot be applied to that end. In this final introductory paragraph, please explicitly describe to what purpose(s) spectral analysis might be (or not be) applied in relation to the recession analysis techniques 
line 79 / 99-103: please note that this is an 'older' formulation of recession analysis ('lumped' recession, or 'point cloud' recession) that is more commonly being replaced by or enhanced by 'event-based' recession	
	see xyz
fig 3: I see an r2 value and a 1-1 line... but it looks as though a linear model would fit with a slope significantly different than that of the 1-1 line
	Please add a line illustrating the linear model actually used to generate the reported r2, and please also report the slope and intercept of the linear model, so the reader may assess the relative bias of the relationships
line 140: is this a reasonable assumption? 
	see xyz
line 149-169: I cannot speak to the accuracy of the spectral transformation
line 175: these criteria are quite strict, and should be described as a limitation of the approach in the intro or discussion
lines 186-192: I'm having a hard time following the rationale here. Is his an established method? I am not familiar with it. In any case, is the underlying assumption that a linear reservoir accurately represents low flows? I do not think that this assumption is well substantiated.
	see xyz
fig 5: I'd like to see a figure illustrating the relationship between the tc values derived using the different baseflow filters: the consistency of this relationship would be useful in assessing the potential physical reality of these values
	[edit: nevermind, this is done in fig 6]
fig 6: I'd like to see the linear model that generated the reported r2 value, along with the slope. Or, if the r2 value is derived from the 1-1 line, then please state so
line 223: do you or Houben et al. 2022 have an explanation for the regional disparity?
line 231: I think "best" is rather ill defined here. I believe something along the lines of "spectral analysis with the Eckardt filter most closely and consistently approximates low flow ratios under the assumption of a linear reservoir"
line 251: these results conform well with the hypothesis that the form of recession curves tends to evolve in response to changes in the relative distribution of groundwater among heterogenous components of the subsurface.
	see xyz
lines 270-278: this section is awkwardly worded. "Could" implies a hypothetical that one has not undertaken, so I'm not sure if your intent is to indicate that future analyses could illustrate xyz (although such analysis was not undertaken in this manuscript, or if you are attempting to indicate that you believe that your research lends credence to the hypothesis that xyz. I believe you mean the latter, but I am not sure.
line 270: please note that alternative approaches indicate the same. I believe that contextualizing your results would help to support the hypotheses in this section.
figure 10: this figure is very helpful to understanding your methods. I would recommend you insert this into the methods section

	
	
	












